Stranger Things is set in the fictional rural town of Hawkins, Indiana, in the 1980s. The nearby Hawkins National Laboratory ostensibly performs scientific research for the United States Department of Energy but also secretly experiments with the paranormal and supernatural, sometimes with human test subjects. They have inadvertently created a portal to an alternate dimension they refer to as the Upside Down, whose presence begins to affect the residents of Hawkins in unusual ways.[11][12]

The first season begins in November 1983 when Will Byers is abducted by a creature from the Upside Down, dubbed the "Demogorgon". His mother Joyce, Police Chief Jim Hopper, and a group of volunteers search for him. A young psychokinetic girl named Eleven escapes from the laboratory and is found by Will's friends, Mike Wheeler, Dustin Henderson, and Lucas Sinclair. Eleven befriends and assists them in their efforts to find Will. Mike's older sister Nancy and Will's older brother Jonathan learn about the Demogorgon that kidnapped Will and the existence of the Upside Down. [13]

The second season is set eleven months later, in October 1984. Will has been rescued, but he begins having premonitions of the fall of Hawkins caused by a creature in the Upside Down. When it is discovered that Will is still being possessed by an entity from the Upside Down, his friends and family learn that anything connected to the Upside Down is part of a hive mind called the Mind Flayer. Lucas earns the affection of new classmate Max Mayfield, while Dustin teams up with Nancy's ex-boyfriend Steve Harrington to fend off a horde of adolescent Demogorgons, which soon attack the rest of their friends.[14]

The third season is set nine months later, in the days leading up to the Fourth of July celebration in 1985. The new Starcourt Mall has become the center of attention for Hawkins residents. Hopper adopts Eleven, and becomes increasingly concerned about her relationship with Mike. Dustin, Steve and his coworker Robin Buckley, and Lucas's younger sister Erica discover that a secret Soviet laboratory underneath Starcourt seeks to open the gateway to the Upside Down. Meanwhile, the Mind Flayer possesses Max's stepbrother Billy Hargrove and sends its vessels made of melted flesh.[15][16]

The fourth season is set eight months later, in March 1986. The Byers family and a de-powered Eleven have moved to Lenora, California for a fresh start. In Hawkins, a being from the Upside Down—later dubbed Vecna—kills teenagers in Hawkins to open gates between the two worlds, and has targeted Max as his next victim. Planning to stop Vecna, Dr. Sam Owens takes Eleven to a facility to help her regain her powers. Joyce and Murray Bauman fly to Russia to rescue Hopper from the Gulag in Kamchatka. Vecna reveals to Nancy and Eleven that he was the murderous first test subject at the Hawkins Laboratory, who took control of the Mind Flayer after he was sent to the Upside Down by Eleven.

The fifth and final season is set in the fall of 1987. The group seeks to find and kill Vecna after the Rifts opened in Hawkins. The mission becomes complicated when the military arrives in Hawkins to hunt Eleven and when Nancy and Mike's younger sister Holly is kidnapped by Vecna. As the anniversary of Will's disappearance approaches, the group prepares for a final confrontation.